[THEME MUSIC]
>> EMERY SMITH: Today
on Cosmic Disclosure,
we're with Richard Doty, a
retired special agent who
served in the Air Force Office
of Special Investigations.
Richard was intimately
involved with UFO,
ET-related intelligence.
Today, we are discussing
his work with DARPA.
Richard, welcome to the show.
>> RICHARD C. DOTY:
Thank you, Emery.
Good to be here.
>> EMERY: Rick you've done
a lot of work with DARPA.
Let's first tell the
audience what is DARPA.
>> DOTY: DARPA is the Defense
Advanced Project Research
Agency.
It's a organization attached
to the Department of Defense.
Their mission is to develop
and monitor and coordinate
advanced research
for military use.
It's primarily for the military.
Everything that they do,
99% of their projects
are for the
Department of Defense
and military applications.
>> EMERY: So why were
you part of that?
What was your
project with DARPA?
>> DOTY: Well, I
wasn't actually--
I never worked with DARPA but
I was working for the institute
but I was connected to DARPA.
We were coordinating things
between the institute
and what DARPA was doing.
The institute had a
contract with DARPA
to analyze exotic technology.
Now, never heard a DARPA
person say ET technology.
It was always exotic technology.
And they had a
particular section
called exotic technology.
Because DARPA concentrated
on coordinating the research,
dishing out the money
to different companies
to do the research forum.
DARPA had about 250
employees but they
had like 50 or 60
contract companies
that were working for them.
So they would
contract the company
under a defense contract,
a DOD security contract,
meaning the company had
to have cleared people
to do all their work and they
would analyze the project
and then report back to DARPA.
The primary mission
of DARPA was any kind
of exotic technology
or foreign technology,
they wanted to reverse engineer.
How easy was it for
the United States
to reverse engineer
this widget that they
got from some other place?
We want to make a widget
better than that widget,
but we can't determine
what that widget's
made of so we have to
find some other materials,
some other elements to construct
that widget so it would operate
just like this one.
And that's basically
what they were doing
and what they're
probably doing today.
>> EMERY: Yeah, I
find it fascinating.
I'm glad you brought it
up that DARPA has hundreds
of other corporations that
they contract certain workout
to test exotic materials to
keep it compartmentalized.
So not everyone knows
what's going on.
Do you agree with that?
>> DOTY: I absolutely
agree with it.
Because when I was
out at Area 51,
DARPA had a big office out there
but they didn't do a whole lot.
They were coordinating the other
agencies, such as Raytheon,
Motorola, E-System,
Los Alamos and Sandia
Laboratories, among many,
many other companies that
were building something,
and contributed
to the reverse
engineering of something.
Now, again, DARPA would never
say ET-related, but secretly
speaking, if you spoke to one
of the project coordinators,
DARPA project
coordinators, he would use
or they would use the word ET.
We found this ET device,
and now we want to--
but in a practical term
or in an open term,
they're going to use
exotic technology.
But when you confront them
with what is exotic technology,
they're not going to
give you an answer.
Now, some of the
work obviously is
foreign technology, things that
we're getting from the Soviet
Union back then or Russia now or
China or some other countries.
Because most countries,
most civilized countries
have some kind of
research project going on,
and we have to
keep on top of it.
And then there's also
that branch of DARPA
that is creating
something on their own.
I mean, they want a company to
make the best laser or the best
other widget that we can
use in an application
to advance military technology.
>> EMERY: So let's say, for
instance, Air Force, Army,
Navy, Marines finds
some exotic technology,
do they get to keep it or
does it go to you or DARPA?
>> DOTY: Well, back in my
days, there was a standing
instruction for other services
that if it was a flying device,
if something flew,
an exotic technology,
a UAP or UFO that crashed, the
Air Force would have primary
responsibility for the recovery
and analysis of that craft.
Now, did that always happen?
I'm sure not, I'm
sure some occasions
the Navy found
something out at sea.
I know of a case, I
know of a very, very--
was at one time classified
incident about a Navy ship,
a carrier group
that saw something
crashed into the ocean.
They went out there,
it took them--
>> EMERY: And retrieved it?
>> DOTY: And they retrieved it.
Took them days and
days to retrieve it,
and here it is, sitting
on the enterprise
because the enterprise was
the aircraft carrier that
was in the carrier group.
They brought it up on
some kind of a ship
that they used to bring it up.
And it was sitting on a
deck and there was pictures,
and there was one on
the internet some years
ago about this flying saucer
sitting on a deck of the USS
enterprise.
And that thing ended up--
the Navy kept it for a long
time before they eventually
had to turn it over
to the Air Force.
And that craft
ended up at Area 51.
>> EMERY: Could you share with
us any exotic technologies
or materials that you guys had
that you actually shared with
DARPA?
>> DOTY: I was fortunate
enough to witness a testing
of something that was recovered
in a UFO crash in 1969.
It was a large
softball size object.
It had very, very,
very strange powers.
It was brought to the
institute to examine
as it was with other places.
I believe it went to--
because it was recovered
in 1969 and we didn't
get into like 1999 or '98.
So it went through a
lot of different labs
but nobody could understand it.
Nobody could understand
what it was used for
or how it operated.
They knew, number one, if you
put it in a sub-zero cooler,
it would heat up.
If you took it and put it in
a furnace, it would cool down.
It couldn't be damaged.
It was emitting
strange radio signals
in various wavelengths,
the radio spectrum,
and they couldn't understand
if those signals were--
they were using those
signals to function
or if this object was using
the signal to function
or if the signals were coming
in to it from an outside source
or whether this
object was sending out
this signal to some
other location.
But it would open up.
The middle portion of this
ball would be flexible.
It was a silver colored ball.
If you looked at it, it looked
like just a silver ball.
It was heavy.
I think it weighed something
like 6 or 8 pounds.
But when you set it down,
it was operating on its own,
it would open up.
You never saw the creases in it
so nobody knew how it worked.
There was no power source that
they could determine inside.
They used all sorts of different
methods of looking into it;
X-ray, and I'm sure,
electro-microscopes.
I'm just guessing, I'm
not sure how they did it,
but they were trying to
look into it to determine
whether they had
batteries, if there
was some other electrical
system that was
using the outside atmosphere.
And one of the scientists
thought there was something
that we were experimenting with
where we could extract hydrogen
from the atmosphere and make
it into some kind of a battery.
And I don't know the whole
technique involved in that.
But they thought maybe that
was what was occurring.
But then again, the scientists
at the end of the day,
he said, we're thinking in
our terms, our education
and what we would
learn years and how
we were trying to apply our
technology to this ball.
And this ball wasn't
made on Earth,
it was made with
alien technology,
and we're not going to
understand what it is.
Number one, we don't
know how it functions.
And number two, we don't
even know what it's used for.
It was found in a craft
in 1969 in Nevada,
we don't know what-- we don't
know what it's used for.
We know it does
all these things.
Does it control something?
Is it a control mechanism?
Because the craft isn't there.
They don't have the craft there.
And one of the scientists,
very smart person
who's still operating
today at Los Alamos,
says you know what, we have to
make this ball with the craft.
And then maybe we'll
figure it all out.
Now, whether they
actually did it
because I was only there
for experiments over,
I think, five or six days.
I'm not sure exactly
how long it was.
A week at the most.
And watching all
this being done.
I mean, I'm sitting in
the back watching this.
And consensus was we're
going to have to get a hold--
DARPA reps were there-- we're
going to have to get a hold,
take it out to wherever the
craft is probably, Area 51,
and mate this with that craft.
And this was in the '90s.
And then we'll figure
out what to do.
And whether they did
that, I never heard.
I'm sure they probably did
but I was never privy to that.
>> EMERY: And what's the name
of this 1969 crash in Nevada?
>> DOTY: Well, it was
one I never heard of.
There was a crash site
near Hawthorne, Nevada.
I think there was a, I
believe, army base there.
Hawthorne Army Depot or
something to that effect.
And it was not far from
Fallon Naval Air Station, too.
That's out that way.
I believe it's in Western,
Northwestern Nevada.
And it was recovered, and
I didn't know much about it
because when the DARPA people
and the other people that
were there start
talking about this,
they're mentioning Hawthorne and
all my years in intelligence,
the 10 years that I worked
with UFO events and incidents,
I never heard about this case.
So all I knew was there was
a crash site near Hawthorne.
They recovered the craft.
They found this ball, power
device, or whatever it was.
And now, over the years--
now, you figure, 1969 to
where we were, 20 years later,
and they don't know what it is.
They still don't
know what it is.
>> EMERY: They still haven't
determined what materials
it's made out of
or how it operates?
>> DOTY: No, no.
You know, it's been
20 years since,
maybe they have since that time.
But I wasn't privy to that.
>> EMERY: What other
objects were examined?
>> DOTY: There was a cylinder
that had been recovered,
18 inches long, a metal,
hard metal cylinder,
had a little moving
piece inside of it.
Again, we were
allowed to look at it,
try to determine what we
thought it might be used for.
I mean, there were
a lot of consensus
that had brought along with it,
that maybe a translator, maybe
some kind of a weapon
system, maybe a stun gun,
all sorts of different
possibilities.
>> EMERY: Where did
you obtain it from?
>> DOTY: Somebody
brought it into the lab.
That's all I can say.
Somebody brought it in and
said, figure out what this is.
And we don't know--
I don't have the knowledge
of where this came from
or how long we had,
the government had it.
But we spent a lot of time, the
lab, the scientists, not me,
but they spent a
lot of time trying
to figure out what these things
were that was given back.
In fact, I was on a small plane.
We flew back to
Los Alamos with it.
And we had to spend
a night in Los Alamos
but we turned it
over to the people
at Los Alamos, not the
Air Force Scientific
Laboratory but another
section of Los Alamos.
You know, they just
shrugged their shoulders,
said, we don't know what it is.
We'll put it away on the
shelf and five years from now,
we'll bring it back out,
maybe our technology
will have advanced far enough
to understand what it is.
>> EMERY: So they didn't have--
they couldn't find any unique
characteristics about
it or a uniqueness?
It was just something that we
received it, we don't know,
we shelved it.
>> DOTY: Well, it put out
frequencies just like the other
devices, had seemed to
have a mind of its own.
It functioned by powering itself
up and powering itself down
without any outside influence,
no manipulation on our part.
And the puzzle is, we had good
batteries, some good batteries
back in those days.
But we didn't have anything that
could keep it charged for as
long as these things did.
And they couldn't understand it.
They couldn't understand how
it would generate frequencies.
You know, we could generate
frequencies by frequency
generator or building a
radio or something like that.
But they couldn't understand
how this thing could create
frequencies, that they
could track the frequencies,
and they could measure
the frequencies.
We could, but they couldn't
determine what was generated.
And that when you give
something to a scientist
and they can't understand
it, they get very upset.
You know, we should be
able to understand this,
we should be able
to figure that out.
But our technology
hasn't advanced.
>> EMERY: Well, sometimes they
have to be humble about it
because sometimes we wouldn't
understand it, you know,
until that technology-- we get
up to that consciousness level
and that technology level just
like when forensic sciences
with murder victims, you
know, it takes sometimes 20,
30 years to find out
who really did it.
I see that a lot with artifacts
of extraterrestrial origin.
Now, DARPA purchased an artifact
from a rancher in South Dakota.
Tell us a little bit about that.
This was an energy
device reportedly.
>> DOTY: Yeah, well, I'm not
sure if it's DARPA that--
I think it was probably DARPA's
money but another company
actually--
>> EMERY: Funded it?
>> DOTY: --funded it.
And it was sent to
the lab and they found
some unique characteristics.
I mean, this thing has been--
we don't know when it was
manufactured obviously
but it was sitting in a
rancher's house for 20
some years.
And now, it still functions.
They analyzed it to
determine that there
was frequencies involved.
They used it to power different
devices in the laboratory.
Something from a
small pen light to--
I mean, they had an
elaborate setup in the lab
and I'm not sure
exactly what voltage
they were needing but the
voltage was this thing,
the small device was
able to power these
and provide a proper
voltage, amperage, voltage,
wattage to power up
different devices,
different lighting
systems, power generator.
It was able to power generator
for a long period of time.
They even went out
and started a car
without disconnecting
the battery.
They had to manipulate in
order to get the connectors
on this energy device.
>> EMERY: How do they even know
that it was an energy device
to begin with?
>> DOTY: Well, in 1947, they
found a Plexiglas device
in the Corona crash where
they thought it was a window.
And this thing was placed-- this
is a very interesting story.
They placed it on a
shelf because they
thought it was just a window
because it's like Plexiglas.
And over the years, people
at Los Alamos, scientists
at Los Alamos would
bring it out and they
would try to look into it to see
what kind of glass was made of
or Plexiglas or material.
And when one of the
scientists was looking at it,
they saw something
moving inside.
And he was stunned
and then they started
doing some really
advanced research on this.
And of course, this was in
the '60s so there wasn't a lot
of advancement but they
determined that there was
something moving inside
this like little bubbles--
>> EMERY: Like a
spark or bubble or--
>> DOTY: Little bubbles.
They were chambers,
little chambers.
But the best microscope
they could get,
they could just find
these little chambers
and there was something
moving around.
They couldn't figure out what
it was moving around or why,
and of course, they didn't
know what it was used for.
Then later on in the '70s,
some very, very smart people
figured there has to be
an application for this.
So they tried all sorts
of different things.
Putting lights through
it, lasers through
it, all sorts of things.
And some scientists
actually connected something
to the one area
and he said, maybe
it would generate electricity.
And bingo, and they found
it to be the general device.
And that went to a lot of
different laboratories,
and that's why the Institute
for Advanced Studies
was analyzing to
determine whether it was--
and a theory was that it
was zero point energy that
was causing this thing to
produce the energy that it
could operate, function with.
>> EMERY: After finding out
all this information, you know,
what did they do with
that information?
And did anyone benefit from it?
>> DOTY: Well, I don't know that
they ever fully understood how
the energy device functioned.
They knew it functioned.
They knew it did these things.
But one of the things they
did was they got companies
to try to duplicate it,
not using alien technology,
obviously, but materials
we have here on Earth.
Can we duplicate this energy
device with the materials
that we have on Earth?
And I think they're still
trying to do it today.
>> EMERY: Was there anything
else at DARPA that you'd like
to share with us that
you were privy to?
>> DOTY: Well, there's a lot
of things that I had access
to, not necessarily--
not working with DARPA, I
never did work with DARPA,
but knowing what DARPA was doing
from an outside agency looking
into DARPA and having interface
with a lot of different DARPA
people.
And one of the things
they were doing,
which was very,
very, very prominent,
spending a lot of money,
and I'm sure where
the money was coming
from, the government,
but it was government money.
They were paying
companies to try
to duplicate exotic technology.
That was a big, big, big
factor in their existence.
And some companies,
particularly Motorola
because I had a good friend
who worked with Motorola,
they wouldn't tell
Motorola everything.
In Motorola, the first
thing is, OK, we're
going to try to duplicate
this thing that sends out
these signals but what is it?
Where did it come from?
We can't tell you that.
Just try to duplicate it.
So they'd go through,
and Motorola experts
in communications, and they'd
figure out all the frequencies
and they'll say, well, this
frequency, we use for this.
These frequencies are
so exotic we don't ever
use these frequencies.
They would be satellite
frequencies or something.
So we don't know, or microwave
And so they would
say, well, we can
generate these frequencies
but what do you
want them to use for?
Well, DARPA don't even
know what these things are
used for so how can
he tell Motorola
or any other companies, this
is what we want you to do.
And so these companies
would get these contracts,
and I've seen it, and
work on these things,
trying to duplicate it using
our technology, our elements.
And sometimes they
were successful
but they could never duplicate
the exotic technology.
Absolutely perfect.
Because these things
that we try to make
didn't work very well, and
not as well as this thing did.
>> EMERY: And we don't have
those materials here probably
as well.
>> DOTY: Yeah, and we
don't have the materials,
the elements that they sometimes
determined that were in these.
A mixture of bismuth and
zinc or some other things
that something connected to
iron that was lightweight.
How did that work?
You know, things-- and I'm
not a technician so I don't--
I can't talk about
everything that they
were-- explain everything
that we're talking about.
But they had a lot of
questions, a lot more questions
than answers.
>> EMERY: So after personally
interacting with these
artifacts and all the intel and
information that gained from
this, and that all this
stuff originated off planet,
how does that affect you today?
>> DOTY: I just wished
I was a scientist.
I wish I was a physicist.
And I wish I was fully
educated in that arena
to understand what the
importance of these objects
were or could be
to our technology,
and how we could apply them.
I'm sitting there
looking at these things
not understanding any
of it, and I'm still
trying to figure
out how could these
work to better our technology.
And I'm sure it could happen.
I mean, if we could figure these
objects, these devices out,
I'm sure there was an
application in our technology
that we could use to better
it, to make a cleaner,
maybe cleaner energy which
is really prominent out there
now, less fossil fuels.
I just wish that we
could understand them
or that the ETs would
bring us something
that we could understand,
that we could use,
that wasn't harming
the environment.
>> EMERY: Do you miss working
in these clandestine ET-related
missions?
>> DOTY: Yes, I do.
I really do.
I don't have access to
anything anymore very much.
I mean, I still connect with
certain intelligence officers
and they throw me a few
tidbits here and there.
But yeah, it's--
I miss it.
>> EMERY: Do you think any
of the three letter agencies
or the military currently work
with extraterrestrial beings
together?
>> DOTY: I'm pretty positive.
I don't have any
firsthand knowledge.
I never saw anything
classified that stated this.
But there are people
that will come forth
that worked out of Area 51.
It said that we had somebody
assisting us in EBA 2 or EBA 3,
or the person called J-Rod.
It was an extraterrestrial
entity that provided knowledge
on trying to understand the
captured spacecrafts that we
had and try to
reverse engineer them.
>> EMERY: In your years of
working in these projects,
have you seen any of that
technology come forth
in the civilian world?
>> DOTY: Yes, I think not
necessarily what I saw--
I mean, what the Institute
did is their business.
I mean, I don't work
for them anymore.
They have a lot of
proprietary stuff
that I can't talk about,
that I saw that probably
would answer those questions.
But there are things out
there, especially the things
that we go back to Philip Corso,
Colonel Corso talked about.
And you look at the
technology that we
were at in the 1950s, '60s,
and look at the technologies
that we're here today.
Somebody, I think, assisted
us advancing our technology.
And I believe it was the ETs.
And this is my own
personal knowledge.
I mean, a personal statement.
It's not anything I've learned
during my intelligence career.
And it's something that I saw
during my intelligence career
and connect it to
my life right now.
And I can't help but believe
that ET technology has
helped advanced our technology.
>> EMERY: Now, I agree, Rich.
With your experience
in DARPA, do you
see a future with
disclosure and when
do you think that might be?
>> DOTY: Well, that's a
complicated question for me
because I knew how
the military operates.
I don't know how many
secrets they keep
and what the military did back
from the '70s to the '80s.
I wasn't involved with them.
I know the military knew the
subject, knew what happened
in the past, had all
that technology, all
that information but they
wouldn't share it then.
Now, to get that
out of the military
and to get that out of
the intelligence community
and bring it forth to the
American or the world public
is going to be quite
a pull, so to speak.
I think there's going to
be some sort of disclosure.
I think there's a lot of people
working on the disclosure.
A great person that I
met once, Harry Reid, he
was a great Senator from Nevada,
he tried many, many times.
But even though he's
a Majority Leader
at one time at the United
States Senate, as a Democrat,
he wasn't able to pull much out.
He knew something was there.
John McCain was another one.
John McCain tried.
He had been briefed into
the subject many years ago.
And he knew of some things
that he tried to bring forth.
And you can go all the way
back to Barry Goldwater.
And Barry Goldwater was
an Air Force general
and he was also a senator.
He ran for president.
He knew a lot.
He'd been briefed into it.
He tried to go public
with information
and they shut him down.
So that's how the
military operates.
To get this information
out to the public
is going to be trying to
pull a rabid dog's tooth.
>> EMERY: Quite the
undertaking, indeed.
>> DOTY: Yes.
>> EMERY: In all your
experiences that you've been
through in the covert
world, what's your take?
And do you believe
that we have an SSP
program that's been going on?
>> DOTY: Well, I knew of
a secret space program
but the only information I had
access to was that we had deep
space probes.
We had launched just probes out
of the shuttle to deep space
to watch for comets
and asteroids
and to keep watch on our solar
system for possible invasion.
And that's what President
Reagan was briefed on.
And that's why the Strategic
Defense Initiative was
activated and tried to
get put into the system
because we were afraid,
we knew of hostile intent
by extraterrestrial races.
And the best defense
is a distant defense.
The more distant you can
track something coming,
the better you're going
to be prepared for it.
And I knew of that.
Now, as far as us
having the ability
to fly to another
planet and fight
a war with another race
of extraterrestrials,
I was never briefed
into that program
while I was in the
intelligence community.
However, since I've
been out on the outside,
I've learned a lot
more, especially
from some very senior
intelligence people,
some retired now who told me
that it actually does exist.
>> EMERY: Isn't that
odd once we get out
of the compartmentalized
programs,
we learn more than we did when
we were in because we were
compartmentalized?
>> DOTY: It's right.
We were structured,
we were disciplined
to stick with the
compartmentalization
that you sign the oath for.
And before-- just an example,
when I worked at Area 51,
there was four OSI agents
there and a supervisor.
None of us knew what
each one was doing.
Isn't that this-- isn't people--
when I tell a layperson
that, they don't believe me.
But that's how
compartmentalization works.
And just like the FOIA system.
The FOIA system works
in so much the opposite.
If the government doesn't
want you to have something
that you requested during FOIA,
you're not going to get it.
The people, the lay
people on the outside
think that if they
submit a FOIA request,
oh they're going to get it.
And if they don't get
it, it doesn't exist.
You're lying.
It doesn't exist.
I sent a FOIA
request in and then
you explain to them what Title
V United States code really
means, that's the
FOIA, is that they can
withdraw anything they want to.
There's nothing in
the United States Code
that says they have
to give you anything.
They will look at
their requests.
And what happens is if
you're in a secretive office,
you get the request, you got
an administrator up front,
I'm the guy with the knowledge,
you're going to come back to me
and say, is there anything here?
Nope, there's nothing there.
And so you're going
to go up and send
a letter off telling
the requester,
no, we don't have anything.
Or they're going to
come back and say,
we can't acknowledge the
existence or nonexistence
of whatever you're asking for
or it's properly classified.
>> EMERY: Which you've
been through personally.
>> DOTY: I've been through
personally, many times.
>> EMERY: With the high
technology of DARPA,
some people are suggesting a
false flag extraterrestrial,
quote unquote, alien invasion.
>> DOTY: Well, I've heard that.
I think that some
of it might be true
of my own personal opinion.
But there's a lot more to that.
There was a paper written some
years ago in the Pentagon.
Many years ago, back
during the Cold War era,
that talked about
that, that talked
about what if we could do this?
Or what if we could do that?
Talking about a
false flag invasion.
Or what the derivative
that was, what
if we were confronted
by what we thought
were the Russians or the
Soviets but were actually ETs?
Or vice versa, what if we
are attacked by the ETs
but they were really
posing as a Russians?
How would we handle all this?
And so there were
war plans, there
were plans created
to counter all this.
And the Pentagon writes
plans for everything.
Alien invasions, you
name it, and they
have a plan for everything.
Believe me.
There are many, many people
out there that, I mean,
there's been a book
written about that.
Me personally, I don't know.
I can just give my opinion.
I think it's a valid
concern that could happen.
>> EMERY: Richard, once again,
fascinating information about
DARPA and your experiences.
Thanks for being on the show.
>> DOTY: Thank you, Emery.
Good to be here.
>> EMERY: I'm Emery Smith and
this is Cosmic Disclosure.
Until next time.
[THEME MUSIC]